Spring Data is a collection of many projects,
and it can be a bit confusing to understand what is what
and how they all relate to each other.
That's why we'll take a look now at how these projects are structured.
The parent project is Spring Data Commons,
which all the other modules depend on and make use of.
Spring Data Commons provides the interfaces or common
programming model that everything else implements.
For example, abstractions around CRUD, pagination and sorting,
derived queries all come from interfaces in this project.
This project is what our focus will be on during this course.
Making use of Spring Data Commons, we first have our main modules.
In the examples here, we have JPA, JDBC,
MongoDB, Cassandra, but there are many more.
These main modules are officially backed by Pivotal,
the commercial enterprise that owns Spring.
This means they're expected to be stable,
following the same development and release lifecycle as
the rest of the Spring framework.
There are also community modules,
which also depend on and implement Spring Data Commons.
Whilst they aren't officially managed by Pivotal,
you can expect the same familiar programming model as the other
projects as the majority of code that you'll be working with will be coming from Spring Data Commons.